Everything is an opinion until you have
data to back it up as a fact. And your
facts will change because what work
today, might not work tomorrow, and
certainly won't work in the future after
that. People view experiments as like a
nice to have and something that you have
to go out of your way to do. When in
reality, everything you're doing on a
day inout basis in your account is some
form of experimentation.
Hey everyone, welcome to episode 7 of
Performance Therapy. Gonzalo and I,
we've got an interesting topic. We're
going to be talking about the experiment
mindset, how great SAS marketers think
about paid media. This is something that
is so foundational to the difference
between like folks that scale
successfully across channels, they get
tremendous traction and stride versus
those that just can't really ever seem
to get outside of LinkedIn and barely
make LinkedIn work and kind of just kind
of spin their wheels. So I think the
things that we're going to talk today
about is really going to help hopefully
unblock people around how to think about
experimentation. When do I make
decisions on you know what to do next?
Like I always hear when do I pause
something, when do I scale something,
right? Like when is enough, right? What
are your rules? What are your
references? etc. benchmarks. All this
context we will dive into in this
episode. So, Gonalo, why don't you just
start us off here and uh share your
thoughts on experimentation and and what
comes to mind?
>> Yeah, experimentation is still a topic
that even ourselves are looking to
improve, right?
>> Of course,
>> because a challenge that I've ran in the
past was like everyone is running a
bunch of experiments, but no one is
putting time aside to document them. So
that's the big I don't think we have
that problem to that degree but I think
a lot of B2B marketers will resonate
with that because ultimately everyone's
testing stuff but
you you have eight hours a day to work
if you if you're lucky right and some of
you guys are running I don't know 10 15
accounts so it's impossible to analyze
all the stuff you're doing. So when we
talk about experimentation, it's in my
opinion it's impossible to do so without
talking about documenting stuff
>> because
and you always say that like you can't
be a pro without a process. But to have
that process and to to implement new
stuff, you need to know what's working,
not where you think it's working.
because now you can suffer from that
recency bias or it's like betting when
you make this big bet and it it hits and
you're super happy and now you feel like
you're winning but when you look at your
overalls it's like your or P&L you're
losing money but the one that comes to
mind is the time you won
>> right
>> and with experiments I think it's a bit
like that of course with the the
specific scale
>> it's like you you you
lose nine hits in a row and then on the
10th one you hit a home run, you know,
and you're like,
>> "This works.
>> I did it. It works. It work." And don't
get me wrong, like sometimes that home
run is enough where it pays for the
other nine hits. So, it's Yeah. 100%.
And if you're not learning and
documenting, I think that's the key word
is you're documenting and you're
documenting so you learn
>> and do the the whole goal of
experimentation is to improve
ultimately, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And this is something that we have
personally really pushed oursel
internally to improve at. So for context
like in the AC conversion community we
we've been sharing one experiment a week
and we've been doing that now I don't
even know like 40 weeks like 30 weeks
something it's been a lot like a lot of
weeks and we have
>> since the beginning yeah
>> since the beginning and we have all of
these documented experiments already so
to be able to create that in practice we
have like 10 times the experiments on
the back end you know with the team and
and this is one of the advantages of
being agency side is you can run all of
these exper experiments and you can test
the same experiment in multiple
industries and then you can see hey does
it does it hold true or does it not
right so let's go ahead and just start
off with giving context to people around
the mindset of experimentation I think
this is really important and then from
there you know we can going to dive more
into like frameworks and and kind of how
our process looks for for experimenting
>> yeah when starting
with an experiment it's you should
always have a problem that you're
looking to solve Right? Because if again
if we go back a few episodes and you go
back to having a strategy plan in place
online with the client ultimately if you
are launching something if you're doing
that activity it needs to be tied to
something whether it's top of the funnel
create when you're whether you're doing
capture um whichever the case might be
whichever KPI you're optimizing towards
if you're launching something needs to
be tied to to a problem that you're
looking to solve. If there's no problem,
it's either something that leadership is
pushing or it's something that you're
launching just because, right? So
starting there is super important
because yeah,
>> if you map out the problem
and let me take a step back like when
you're
>> it's when you're looking to experiment
stuff, it's hard to have ideas when
you're forcing yourself to have ideas.
Yeah.
>> But if you start writing it down, it's
okay, what do I want to solve? Okay, I
have this specific problem. Okay, what
are two or three things I can do to
solve that problem? Have I done it? No.
Can I try it? Maybe. And at least for
myself, that's that helps a lot. Like
writing it down or even it's it's not
necessarily writing, it's typing it on
the laptop.
>> But
>> getting it out of your head somewhere.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. Because it's a problem. Because
you also have a problem. If you're
thinking about something to launch, you
ultimately want to solve something.
Whether it's lowering your CPL,
increasing volume, there's something you
want to solve or you're looking to
experiment. So it's like understanding
what can have the greatest impact. So
having the problem and
what problem can you solve that if
successful can heal the most impact on
your client's performance on your
brand's performance and just taking it
from there. I think it's a good starting
point.
>> Really, really important. And one me one
mentality and one frame that we talk
about internally all the time in the
agency is everything is an opinion until
you have data to back it up as a fact
and your facts will change
>> because what work today might not work
tomorrow and certainly won't work in the
future after that. So not just taking
things as gospel whatever you read
online like for context like when
thought leader ads rolled out we saw a
lot of hype around it and then we ran
tests and then after running our own
tests we developed our own opinion right
does it work does it not work where is
it strong where is it weak what are the
pros what are the cons and I invite
everyone to adopt that frame because
once you start to think from that
perspective you realize like you have so
many things that you need to prove or
disprove
And it it could be like simple things
like for example um I want to share like
that that manual bidding experiment that
we ran for branded search. I think that
that's like a perfect example of like
breaking the norm and not accepting
things as you know fact until you've ran
the test to have the data support it.
>> Yeah, that experiment was pretty
interesting because you speak with
Google reps or Google reps reach out to
your client to your team and they will
push for smart beating. But what we
noticed was that we were just spending
and this client was spending over 100k a
month on brand search which is insane
like not even like client plus
alternatives like just client brand name
you know so that was pretty interesting
because just a simple campaign setting
meant we increased our impression share
our average CPC went down I don't think
volume was impacted that much and if it
was it wasn't significant because the
cost in case was PLG, their cost per
trial went down, the cost per uh
customer went down too. And ultimately,
it's brand search like these folks will
convert regardless. So that's one thing
like defying the norms because no one's
speaking. I mean with brand search you
see a lot of people people saying the
same but it seems like Google is pushing
automation into our mouths and yeah and
it's so powerful like if you get in the
habit of writing your problems and then
documenting your experiments when you
are on these calls with these platform
reps and they're recommending things man
like they hate us because we like they
might be recommending a certain like for
example with branded searchs they're
recommending broad like you know, max
conversions or something. And then we
tested manual CPC and we found like it
was dramatically better specifically for
branded search.
>> Yeah.
>> And then they're proposing that and then
we're like, well, wait a second. Here's
why we're doing what we're doing. Here's
exactly how you can see it. And when
when you get in this habit of
documenting, you start to build
tremendous IP for your company, right?
Around what works and what doesn't. also
to build that authority with the client
because if you don't have anything to to
hold your ground against Google or any
reps, the clients will most if it's a
new client, if you already have a
backtrack is different, but clients will
most likely take their side because I
mean it's Google. These guys are the
reps for x amount of accounts. They
should know their product better than I
do, better than the agency does. So if
they're saying this, let's try it. But
if you have data to show for it and to
like to to dispute their their
suggestions, it's a different story and
you start also building that trust with
with the client.
>> Yeah. And vice versa, like if they
suggest something and you test it and it
works, great. Now you have data to
continue to support that action, right?
>> So just to highlight here, uh, a problem
defined is a problem half-solved. It's a
really like powerful quote where I
forget I think it was like Albert
Einstein. He said, "If I had an hour to
solve a problem, I'd spend the first 50
minutes defining it and the last 10
minutes solving it." And it's so
powerful because often times we find
ourselves not even solving like the core
root problem. We're just like treating
symptoms. Mhm.
>> And it kind of is like the analogy I was
using like imagine like you got stabbed,
you know, and instead of like addressing
the wound, you're like stressing over,
you know, the paper cut in your finger
or, you know, whatever it is or but it's
like you're not addressing the core
issue. So by actually writing it out is
is really powerful. So let's talk about
our framework that we use for
experimentation. So for context like for
us and our agency, the same can be
applied inhouse. So for context any any
experiment you want to launch, you can
use this framework. And then of course
if you're agency side you can absolutely
use this framework as well for all of
your clients. So let's just break down
like when a brief comes in. So anytime a
campaign brief comes in from anyone in
our team of hey I want to launch X thing
what are the things that we have in our
campaign brief to define our
experimentation process.
>> Yeah for the experimentation we have the
problem. So why are we launching that in
the first place? Then you have the
hypothesis like okay I expect that if we
do X I expect I don't know cost per demo
to go down. You know you don't have to
be super specific like ultimately you're
doing something because you're looking
to improve anything in your ad account.
So you have your problem you have your
hypothesis then you have the time frame.
What I came to realize is that with the
time frame sometimes, especially when
you're working with with clients and
approvals, like the time frame you set
is not necessarily the time frame you'll
run. But it's important that you have at
least uh a rule of thumb. Uh the thought
process of taking two three weeks to
look back and see how it's working. Even
if it doesn't mean like you're cutting
the experiment after two or three weeks,
you should be getting some learnings and
checking how it's going. And then like
that's the part of the brief because
also important um is how you're
measuring the success. So if when you're
when you're doing the hypothesis is okay
if I launch convo ads I I expect my cost
per demo to go down. Okay, how are you
going to measure the effectiveness of
that experiment? Oh, I'm looking at cost
per demo. Maybe you want to check volume
because yeah like you have all these
measurement these metrics that you want
to to look at when it's time to analyze
because that also keeps you grounded
because what happens sometimes is like
you're launching this experiment the
core objective of the experiment wasn't
met but now you get distracted with
other vanity metrics like okay I
launched convo ads my cost per demo
didn't went down but my open rate was
90%. Okay, this was kind of success, but
it wasn't because the core problem that
you mapped out was I need to lower the
cost per. So having the measurement also
sets that guardrail. Um especially too
this is a simple experiment where when
it gets more complex and remember that
you have to take the time to analyze if
you already map out what was going
through your head when you were first
putting the briefing it makes easier
when it's time to analyze because you're
kind of a robot. Ah okay let me look at
these two three metrics okay because now
this is the briefing and then when it's
time to analyze it's pretty
straightforward you just need to pull
the results what are the core takeaways
two three needs to be actionable from my
experience that's helpful and then you
should list one two next steps okay if
I'm launching going back to this example
if I'm launching convo ads and I expect
my cost per demo to decrease okay when I
analyzed it my cost per demo indeed
decreased what are we doing Next. Oh,
okay. That's when you look at the other
metrics. Yeah. My cost per demo
decreased, but the open rate of my convo
ads was 30%. Which is terrible.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. What can we do? Now, now you
actually have another hypothesis. Okay.
If I improve the open rate of my convo
from 30 to 50%, which is kind of
average, right? The baseline. Can my
cost per demo even go down more? You
know, right? So it's important tying
tying back the dots like okay you have
the problem you have the hypothesis you
have the measurement and then when
you're analyzing the results is
important that you close the loop of
that experiment and you don't end it
there. If anything, it should be like,
"Oh, convo ads were terrible. Let's not
doing do it anymore in the next one or
two months. Let's put it on the side."
But you should be closing the loop. And
if it's working or if it's marginally
working, not to the degree you want it,
but some level of effectiveness, that
should fuel the next experiment because
and and I'm getting on it right now, but
like the core problem that you have is
still lowering the cost per demo, right?
>> Yeah. But if that first experiment
didn't get you there, but you saw some
positive signs, it doesn't mean you
should abandon convo ads. No. Okay, let
me look at all the other varity metrics.
How can I improve it? Unless it's super
terrible
>> that like that core problem that you had
is still there. So you can be making
multiple experiments to solve the core
problem. So it doesn't have to to end
there. I think one thing that I often
see and something that we struggled with
as well internally
is people view experiments as like a
nice to have and something that you have
to go out of your way to do when in
reality everything you're doing on a day
in dayout basis in your account is some
form of experimentation.
>> So for example like I launch a a
campaign to drive demos. I've got four
ads. I see ad one is doing better than
ad two. I pause ad one and ad two or
whatever. Now you have to make a choice.
Am I gonna launch more ads? Right. You
have to make a decision to help improve
the metric.
>> So people are doing this. They're just
doing it unconsciously.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and really what we're trying
to do is we're trying to just take a
step back and it feels slow in the
moment because you're and you're like,
"Oh, now I have to write all this out."
But over time, you end up moving much
further and faster because everyone else
continues to repeat the same mistake
over and over again. and you don't
because you're iteratively learning
every single week, right? Or whatever
the time frame is for you and you're
making those adjustments and at the end
of all of this work, you have this
library of learnings where now you can
really easily go to your library
and I don't want to get into tools and
and all this because that could be like
a whole episode, but you have your
library where now you can really easily
see, hey, what are all the experiments
that I launched on LinkedIn?
>> Right? Boom. Now you can see all of them
and depending on like how well you are
in terms of like the briefing step and
like the fields you're collecting you
can report on that. So you can see oh I
have all my LinkedIn experiments in the
create stage right and you can see all
of that and then you could also see the
results which ones were game changers
which one were high impact low impact
etc. And it's super powerful and it just
compounds over time. And this is genuine
IP, right? And this experimentation is
is your R&D process is kind of how we
think about it. And experimentation can
be as as small as testing ad one versus
ad two, right? And the experiment is
around like, oh, does this concept
perform better than that concept? And it
can be as big as this landing page
versus this landing page, you know? So,
I think that's something that I see a
lot of folks struggle with where they
think it's some optional thing and they
have to go out of their way, but the
reality is is like you're doing it
already. It's just taking a step back
and being more intentional and mindful
about how you actually go about the
process.
>> Yeah. And analyzing it, too. And of
course, like we're leveraging AI to help
streamline the takeaways and the next
steps.
>> This is an important one. I know I know
you're breezing over it, but let's let's
unpack that. So like for people you know
they so for context you know they're
using this framework right they've got a
they've got a clear problem defined
>> they've got a hypothesis if I do this
then I believe this as measured by this
and the hypothesis I just want to
emphasize the importance of the
hypothesis is the hypothesis helps you
understand was it successful or not and
I think that's so critical because often
times people just let things run for way
too long it's left in limbo land you
know and they're like, "Oh, I think it's
working
testing in the first place."
>> Correct. They completely lose the plot.
They're like, "What? Why is this even
active? I actually don't know anymore."
Right? And that's why the hypothesis is
really important. So, they've got the
problem, they've got the hypothesis,
they they ran the experiment. Now, it's
time to analyze the data. How are you
thinking about analysis? And like what
are some things that we're doing that
helps?
>> Yeah, we're leveraging AI already. And I
mean, I don't want to sound
sophisticated because everyone's talking
about AI, but it's something as simple
as, of course, we're leveraging a tool.
I don't know if I should say it, but
we're leveraging a tool to to help us
get those creative insights faster, like
the data, to pull the data without
checking the ad channels. And then it's
using AI to help analyze the results of
the ads and pull the take help pull the
takeaways and help get like a draft of
the hypothesis and the problem for the
follow-up to that experiment. So when we
talk about analyzing, we don't mean
putting one hour aside to analyze any
experiment. No, even if you're spending
five minutes on it, that's already more
than I I'm being generous. I would say
50, but like 90% of the people because
just affect your
>> even copying and pasting and reading to
make sure it's actually aligned with the
results you got. you're already running
and more importantly in our case and as
an agency with the creative team you're
already closing the loop so that when
you're requesting a creative refresh for
example in our in the example I was
giving oh the cost per demo with the
convo was lower but open rate was
terrible there's room for improvement
now I can go back to the creative team
and guys this is what we built awesome
results but I feel like if we improved
the subject we can see better open rates
yeah
>> and now the creative team knows what
they need to do. But if I'm just marking
it and like, okay, done saving insights
for myself, I don't share it. Next time
I ask, the creative team will look at it
and be like, okay, these guys are seeing
results. Let's do more.
>> Yes.
>> When in reality, yes, I want to do more,
but we need some tweaks. And this is
working with a creative team. If you're
working inhouse,
these guys don't have the benefit that
creative teams at at an agency do where
they're overseeing multiple clients. So
that's even more important because they
are like this and rightfully so they
they only need to build ads for that
specific brand and usually too like
they're not just building creatives for
ads. They're doing it for trade shows.
>> They're doing everything. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So they don't even think about it.
They just ship it, you know. So, it's
super important that you close the loop.
And it doesn't it might sound complex at
first, especially when you're building
that muscle, but ultimately, as long as
you're collecting those insights,
pulling the takeaways, um, you're
already doing more than most of the B2B
marketers that we see out there. So, and
that's also a cool to have. Like, some
clients don't even have the bandwidth to
to look at the insights, but that's also
cool to have. like guys here's the the
library of experiments we we closed in
the past month even if it's one two
three
>> that's a nice to have for them because
oh cool let me share this internally
>> it two things uh so one if you're
listening to this right now and the tech
is like consuming you of like how does
this work you know like an example uh
we'll link in the description for you
guys uh an example of our
experimentation library template that we
walked through in module five of our
building a paid media program course and
it's built in air tableable So, it's
really simple and you know you you'll be
able to see that if you want like a
starting point, but it could be as
simple as like a Google doc,
>> right? Where you you have like a tab for
each month and you write down my here's
my hypothesis, my problem, right? My
KPIs, uh how long I'm going to let the
experiment run and then a takeaway
section. It could be as simple as that.
And you touched on something really
important is the value of
experimentation is not just the insights
you gain, but the insights the company
gains. So, if you're working with
creative teams, you can share those
insights with them. you can inform them,
right? You can keep them in the loop of
like, hey, what you did last month
actually had an impact. That motivates
people, right? They they want to
improve. They they love that feedback.
And like in our experience internally in
the agency, our creative strategist like
they're thirsty for feedback. You know
what I mean? Like they're like, I I had
a really cool example like creative
concept that I I launched last month.
Like I want to know how it does and then
how to, you know, see, you know, how I
can improve it. How can I beat it? And
that's where this becomes like a game
and it becomes a lot of fun. And on that
note too, which we talked about this
briefly in a earlier episode, these
experiments can also fuel like your
internal monthly newsletter
>> where you're sharing these wins and
these losses and and really it's not a
loss as long as it's a controlled
failure, right?
>> You either win or you learn.
>> Yeah. You win or you learn basically,
right? I mean the only rate you really
lose is if you're just being wasteful,
you know, and that's the other value of
being these experiments is that you're
being more intentional with with your
money, which is fantastic. And you can
share these learnings internally and
then you can secure more budget from
stakeholders because what you're doing
is you're showing them like which every
startup leader encourages is
experimentation and learning from
failure, right? So you can show them,
hey, look at all this experimentation
I'm doing how it's impacting
performance. So fast forward in the
future, you know, you're you've already
created certainty, you've built trust,
so now when it comes time to ask for
more money, it's a lot easier, right?
>> Mhm. Yeah. And when you're documenting
it and when we're talking about the
future of paid agencies, like we're
always talking about, okay, you go into
chatb for example, and I'm giving this
example because everyone uses it, and
you ask for, oh, give me three
experiment ideas for this problem
regarding paid ads. I mean, you can fix
your input, whatever. and it will give
you experiment ideas. But if you're in
house, you actually have to test it
because there's no guarantee that's
going to work. Even if it's working for
99% of the other companies in your
space, it might not work for you. And
the benefit and the value that I see
ourselves having that library is that
now when you're working with an agency
ours agency you're not only buying for
their monthly work you're also buying
that or buying getting that knowledge
right because
>> maybe you think oh let's do convo ads
and these guys have run convo ads for
100 other companies in the past 30 days
and they say oh convo ads aren't working
anymore. Okay. So, just the time it
saved you not running even if it's 5k a
month that's already 5k you saved.
>> Yeah.
>> Just because you hired that expertise
but if you're not like saving those
insights and learning from it
>> um
>> that IP is so valuable like that that is
like I mean there's a lot of benefits
but that like collective mind share is
so so so impactful. Uh the other thing I
will mention as well is
you want to test your experiments again.
>> Mhm.
>> And ideally you want to test it if
possible and like if you're inhouse try
to test in as many relevant scenarios as
you can because we see it all the time
like we get false positives
>> right where we have one experiment that
crushes in a very very specific instance
but there's no correlation across the
portfolio right of other industries or
other similar examples. So you want to
make sure you test those assumptions and
see like okay was it an isolated event
or is it and this is what we call the
game changers
>> where like they consistently perform
well across the portfolio. So like that
manual bid
>> example with branded search that was
like a gamecher cuz it consistently
worked again and again and again across
the portfolio. So for you if you're
inhouse like try to really test and do
multiple tests. And I think that another
important point here because I always
whenever I post about experimentation
there's always somebody in LinkedIn
who's like you know like I'll I'll tout
the number of experiments right where
I'll be like oh we did 150 experiments
over the past you know year or whatever
and somebody's like oh well 150 you know
they're garbage right like that they're
probably just like small experiments
that don't mean anything. And there's
definitely like going back to one of our
points is like you need a certain amount
of volume to also get quality and also
small things can have massive swings in
paid media, right? As simple as like
changing a bid strategy. The experiment
can be as simple as that and it can have
massive impact, right? On the on the
flip side, you can have more
orchestrated experiments that take way
more resources and much more strategic
alignment across teams.
>> But you need to test more. I mean,
generally speaking,
>> and when when you have an established
account, of course, we're always looking
for impact, but like I know I was
speaking with Chris the other day and he
did this analysis with a client and
and he realized that he started looking
at the data that the background color
was actually moving the needle for them,
which is crazy. like we we're always
advising against testing background
colors,
>> but for him he had data to show that
using I can't remember the the color,
but it was it was significant the the
lower
>> everyone's going to DM you now.
>> What's the color?
>> No. Yeah, it's not like that. But but
you get what I'm saying? Like and if if
Chris posts about it on LinkedIn without
the data, he's like, "Oh, this guy is
silly. He's testing colors." Yeah,
>> but in his case we know he's making
first of all he's making a lot of tests
and it tests that when the account is
already in a place where first of all
they have the volume that even if it
drives a 5% lift 5% for them it's not
one lead we're talking maybe about
hundreds you know so it's impactful in
this scenario so of course in 150
experiments some of them are low impact
that happens but ultimately they also
need to be applied to the specific
scenarios because what's low impact for
a client spending 10k a month if another
client spending a million makes that
same same experiment and gets a 3% lift
five
>> it's impactful for them right especially
when you get to a point where there's
not so much else you can scale but
>> yeah yeah there there will always be
those people
>> yeah yeah 100% let's uh let's iterate
now to talk about rules and how you
should think about rules in relation to
experimentation
So, when is it time to pause? When is it
time to increase? When should we scale?
And if you've been following along and
you've set, you know, this is my
problem, my hypothesis, these are the
leading KPIs, you're already well on
your way. Because for context, if if I'm
running an experiment and the core
problem that I want to solve is I want
to generate
uh let's use a let's use a hard one
because lead genen is pretty
straightforward, right? It's like, oh,
the cost per lead or the cost per. I
want to use a hard one. Like, let's say
>> I want to run an experiment around
understanding the impact of YouTube
brand awareness campaigns and how
YouTube brand awareness campaigns affect
my organic and direct traffic in a
certain region. So basically in this
case what we're doing is we're running
an incrementality test where we are
basically taking a variable and we're
saying okay if we change this variable
what is the what is the result of that
and most experimentation is some form of
AB testing. So in this case we actually
have a client um that we worked with
that was running a ton of YouTube
campaigns. There's a lot of really fun
experiment and they were running a lot
of YouTube campaigns and we really want
to understand like how impactful is
YouTube and the spillover and the brand
awareness of YouTube. So what we did was
our problem was we want to understand
does running YouTube ads actually drive
a positive halo effect. That was the
core problem we wanted to solve. So our
hypothesis was if we only run brand
awareness ads and in this case what we
did because we're targeting Brazil, we
just did it because Brazil is massive.
So we just did it in a specific region
of Brazil, right? Not the whole country.
And what we did was uh we said okay if
we see a notable increase in organic and
direct traffic in terms of conversions
and our cost per for I think it was like
Sao Paulo compared to these other
regions
then we would you know market as a
success or vice versa if we see a
negative impact. So like if we pause ad
spend will we see a decrease if we
increase ad spend will we see an
increase. So anyways, we did that
exactly that we did out this hold out
study and we um we ran ads in that
specific region in just that specific
region and from there what we found was
in that instance there was a correlation
right we did see an increase in organic
and direct which gave confidence to now
expand the investment in YouTube across
the country as a whole
>> and you know if you see like YouTube ads
can drive direct conversions too this
wasn't really focused on that this was
cuz we knew for most people, they're not
going to direct click from a YouTube ad,
right? And this is an example of like
how this can come into play, you know?
So now when you start to think in this
world of experimentation, it gets super
exciting because now there's like so
many things you can test. And in that
specific example of this hold out, the
the leading KPIs that we were looking at
was what was the view rate and the cost
per view. Because in our case like in
order to actually drive a meaningful
lift and organic and direct traffic, we
need to drive enough impressions, right?
People need to actually see the videos
and and enough of the videos. So for us,
that was our leading KPI, view rate. And
then from there, we were using that to
decide, hey, do I pause this ad? Do I
need a new ad? Right? We're using that
view rate, the CPM, and CTR to make
those decisions. So then from there, we
were able to make decisions within a 7
to 14 day period. We didn't have to wait
six months.
>> Oh, did it work? Is it not working?
Right? And then from there, after
optimizing that and driving to that
consumption, eventually after our hold
out period, we saw the overall lift,
which is fantastic. The same is true
with branded search. That's another
experiment that comes to my mind where
we were investing a ton of money on
branded search. And most people will
tell you if you're running branded
search on paid search, it's like a waste
of money. It's like why? You're already
going to get the traffic. And that's
what we were saying too. And they were
like adamant that branded search was
driving net new acquisition, meaning
people who wouldn't have converted
anyways. And we were like, okay, let's
test it. So we tried basically what we
did was we we turned off branded search
in a very specific region because we
don't want to disrupt the overall
performance and we saw a notable
decrease in the number of trials in that
region. So from there we had the
confidence already that like branded
search actually makes sense for us in
this specific account in this specific
instance. So when you set up the
framework now it gives you a lot of
clarity on okay the rules right of like
when do I pause when do I scale and
you're connecting the whole thing
together.
>> Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. And there's this
example even on on that brand search uh
topic that comes to mind like this week
actually like this client before working
with us they didn't have brand search
set up and we set it up for them and
they when looking at the blended number
of opportunities they saw pretty much
the same like a small dip month over
month but what we noticed was like
organic and direct took a hit because we
launched brand search.
>> So it was the opposite.
>> Yeah the opposite. And I mean that's not
something you hear often like ever like
the next month after you launch brand
search you you see organic and direct
take a hit. The problem is and that's
something that we're workshopping now is
that you have other competitors bidding
on their search terms. So that's where
it gets tricky and maybe that's the
experiment. Okay like guys we can turn
it off. See if organic and direct can
still pick it up. this case more
organic, right? Can pick it up. But
let's see what happens if you lose
conversions because we have other
competitors there. Yeah.
>> But that's like the nuances, right? And
that's not a one-sizefits-all. And this
like just these nuances and this
complexities. This is why it's so
important to experiment for yourself.
You cannot just trust average
benchmarks. I am more cons I am more
concerned with how did I perform last
month and how am I performing this
month? How did I perform last quarter?
How am I performing this quarter? and
how can I improve my performance from
last to current and continuously, you
know, fighting the battle against
yourself and and optimizing against it
is really key. Benchmarks are helpful
when you're starting from 0 to one
because you have nothing to go off of.
>> But when you're already past 0 to one
and you're trying to go one to 10, it's
all about you versus you
>> and just continuing to iterate and and
optimize from there.
>> All right, guys. Thank you so much for
watching this episode. We will see you
in the next one. Thanks so much for
watching this episode. If today's combo
hit home for you and you want to go
deeper, check out adconversion.com.
You'll find free courses, a killer
advertising community, and if you're
ready to scale, we'd love to work with
you.